feat: UI Dialog and DialogTrigger Components (#953)
deephaven/deephaven-plugins: plugins/ui/docs/hooks/use_flag.md

# use_flag

> `use_flag` is a hook used to add a boolean flag to your component. Since it is a hook, it must be used at the top level of your component. It returns a tuple with exactly three items: the current flag value, a function to set the flag to `True`, and a function to set the flag to `False` . Updating state will cause the component to re-render (running the function again). This is a convenience hook for when you only need functions to set a flag to `True` or `False`. For more complex state management, use `use_state`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`use_flag` is a hook that adds a boolean flag to your component. Since it is a hook, it must be used at the top level of your component. It returns a tuple with exactly three items: the current flag value, a function to set the flag to `True`, and a function to set the flag to `False` . Updating state will cause the component to re-render (running the function again). This is a convenience hook for when you only need functions to set a flag to `True` or `False`. For more complex state management, use `use_state`.
```

## Example

```python
from deephaven import ui

@ui.component
def ui_flag():
    flag, set_true, set_false = ui.use_flag()
    return [
        ui.text(f"{flag}"),
        ui.button("Set True", on_press=set_true),
        ui.button("Set False", on_press=set_false),

>     ]

Reviewer 2: The main draw for this hook is so we don't need to have lambdas like the following, correct?
```python
    flag, set_flag = ui.use_flag(False)
    return [
        ui.text(f"{flag}"),
        ui.button("Set True", on_press=lambda: set_flag(True)),
        ui.button("Set False", on_press=lambda: set_flag(False)),
    ]
```
Seems convenient for these cases, particularly around something like opening/closing a dialog... My only concern is that for each public hook we publish, careful consideration is required about the API of said hook and it's future usability/maintainability.

With that in mind, I have a couple concerns about this hook as is:
- `use_flag` is a name that doesn't make it immediately apparent what's up - the name `flag` to me implies a setting of some sort, like reading a global flag that's set. I'd rather name this something like `use_boolean`
- It's returning two setters instead of one (as typical with `use_state`), and it would be easy to accidentally mix up the setters (e.g. I do `value, set_false, set_true = ui.use_boolean()`, no warnings/errors in the code but my boolean will now be the opposite of what I want).
- Another really common use case with a boolean would be to have a `toggle` function, which this does not address. You could have _another_ setter function, but that's exacerbating the previous issue

Doing a search for existing React hooks for `useBoolean`, seems there are a couple hooks that have done something similar: 
1. https://marcoghiani.com/blog/react-custom-hooks-usetoggle-useboolean
2. https://dev.to/iamludal/react-custom-hooks-useboolean-3m6c
3. https://usehooks-ts.com/react-hook/use-boolean

I don't want to check in this hook as is... let me check something out first.

What's nice about this

Reviewer 2: Okay, take a look at this (@dgodinez-dh, @bmingles, @dsmmcken, and @jnumainville):

```python
from deephaven import ui
from deephaven.ui._internal import InitializerFunction, UpdaterFunction
from typing import Callable, cast, overload, Protocol, Tuple

class BooleanCallable(Protocol):
    on: Callable[[], None]
    off: Callable[[], None]
    toggle: Callable[[], None]

    def __call__(self, new_value: UpdaterFunction[bool]) -> None: ...

def use_boolean(
    initial_value: bool | InitializerFunction[bool] = False,
) -> Tuple[bool, BooleanCallable]:
    """
    Hook to add a boolean flag variable to your component. The flag will persist across renders.
    This is a convenience hook for when you only need functions to set a flag to True or False.
    For more complex state management, use use_state.

    Args:
        initial_flag: The initial value for the flag.
            It can be True or False, but passing a function will treat it as an initializer function.
            An initializer function is called with no parameters once on the first render to get the initial value.
            After the initial render the argument is ignored.
            Default is False.

    Returns:
        A tuple containing the current value of the flag, a function to set the flag to True, and a function to set the flag to False.
    """
    flag, set_flag = ui.use_state(initial_value)

    on = ui.use_callback(lambda: set_flag(True), [set_flag])
    off = ui.use_callback(lambda: set_flag(False), [set_flag])
    toggle = ui.use_callback(lambda: set_flag(lambda old_value: not old_value), [set_flag])

    def init_callable():
        boolean_callable = cast(BooleanCallable, set_flag)
        boolean_callable.on = on
        boolean_callable.off = off
        boolean_callable.toggle = toggle
        return boolean_callable

    boolean_callable = ui.use_memo(init_callable, [set_flag, on, off, toggle])

    return flag, boolean_callable

# Example usage:
@ui.component
def ui_boolean_example():
    value, set_value = use_boolean()

    return [
        ui.text(f"{value}"),
        ui.checkbox("My value", is_selected=value, on_change=set_value),
        ui.switch("My value", is_selected=value, on_change=set_value),
        ui.button("Set True", on_press=set_value.on),
        ui.button("Set False", variant="negative", on_press=set_value.off),
        ui.button("Toggle", variant="secondary", on_press=set_value.toggle)
    ]

my_boolean_example = ui_boolean_example()
```

Some things I like about this:
- Still returns a value/set_value tuple like a regular use_state, so you can still use it with our controls like checkboxes/switches.
- Can pass convenient `.on`, `.off`, `.toggle` callables still, for the use case you're using it for

Thoughts?

Author: This seems good. I really wanted an open / close, but decided to try to generalize it. I also wanted a toggle, but  I didn't want to return a third setter.

Reviewer 3: The proposed api makes sense to me.

Author: @mofojed We could add a fourth method to `BooleanCallable`:
`set: Callable[[bool], None]`
For the case where the user wants to set the value directly perhaps using the return value from another call?

Reviewer 4: I like this. Keeps the api both flexible and clean.

Author: Updated
